Sunday 8. The Lord was pleased to call her to himself. The day before
she seemed much better. But in the evening she fell worse again, and
this morning, about nine, departed. When word came of this, I was not
shocked at first; but in a while I began to reason on what had passed
between us the evening before. She then said, “When death seemed nigh
some nights since, the enemy thrust sore at me, and said, This will be
thy end: But I said, Not without God’s permission: He can bring me down
to the belly of hell, and bring me up again, as he did _Jonah_ out of
the whale’s belly. But it is one thing to talk of death, and another
to have it brought home to us.” Then her husband, and children, and
friends came near, and sorrow seemed to overwhelm her. But she said,
“God is able to bless and keep them, without me, if he is pleased to
take me. And if he is pleased to spare me, I can do nothing for them,
without the Lord.” When I reflected upon these things, not watching
unto prayer, I was quickly encompassed with a flood of temptations:
So that I never remember to have passed such a night, since I knew the
goodness of God. I could not sleep till six in the morning. But, glory
be God, I had peace at the bottom, and continued striving with all my
might. About Monday noon I found ease, and at five in the evening, I
could wait upon the Lord without distraction. On Tuesday I had such a
sweet and resigned will as I scarce ever had before. I was much taken
up with the blessedness of heaven, and had no doubt but I should be
there; but had no will of my own to die or live, only as the Lord
should please, and not one reluctant thought concerning the leaving of
my friends or family. I lay quite passive in the hands of my dear Lord.
O may he ever keep me so!